Blazor hosting models UE pass (#20868)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hosting-models.md

## Blazor WebAssembly

The primary Blazor hosting model is running client-side in the browser on WebAssembly. The Blazor app, its dependencies, and the .NET runtime are downloaded to the browser. The app is executed directly on the browser UI thread. UI updates and event handling occur within the same process. The app's assets are deployed as static files to a web server or service capable of serving static content to clients.

![Blazor WebAssembly: The Blazor app runs on a UI thread inside the browser.](hosting-models/_static/blazor-webassembly.png)

When the Blazor WebAssembly app is created for deployment without a backend ASP.NET Core app to serve its files, the app is called a *standalone* Blazor WebAssembly app. When the app is created for deployment with a backend app to serve its files, the app is called a *hosted* Blazor WebAssembly app. A hosted Blazor WebAssembly app typically interacts with the server over the network using web API calls or [SignalR](xref:signalr/introduction) (<xref:tutorials/signalr-blazor-webassembly>).

> To create a Blazor WebAssembly app in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com), use the **Blazor App** > **Blazor WebAssembly App** project template. After selecting the template, you have the option of configuring the app to use an ASP.NET Core backend by selecting the **ASP.NET Core hosted** check box.

Reviewer: Not sure whether this is better or not. I'll leave it up to you, @guardrex  to judge.

```suggestion
To create a Blazor WebAssembly app in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com), use the **Blazor App** > **Blazor WebAssembly App** project template. After selecting the template, you have the option of enabling the `hosted` model by selecting the **ASP.NET Core hosted** check box. This will also generate a server project in the created solution and add sample API interaction call in the client app.
```

Author: I'll edit the suggestion to remove "model" so that it doesn't sound like there's a third hosting model for Blazor. Thus far, we've always only defined "hosting model" as *how components are hosted within an app* (WASM or Server). We haven't split WASM into two further "hosting models" (standalone and hosted).

Now that I reflect on this, I think the document should call that concept out. If we define it explicitly, we should 🤞 be able to avoid some of the overloading of the word "hosted" these days. I'll add that on a future commit and leave a comment with the text that I used.

```suggestion
To create a Blazor WebAssembly app in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com), use the **Blazor App** > **Blazor WebAssembly App** project template. After selecting the template, you have the option of selecting the **ASP.NET Core hosted** check box to serve the Blazor WebAssembly app to clients from an ASP.NET Core app. The project template for a hosted Blazor WebAssembly solution includes separate server and client projects. The solution includes a sample web API interaction between the server and client projects.
```

Author: Thinking a bit further 🤔 in more detail ...

Thus far based on the original text, "how components are hosted by the app" boils down to how the component C# code is executed ... WASM runtime in the browser versus on the server in an ASP.NET Core app.

Author: 🤔 ... I like what we have. The rubber :duck: says that we already scope the word "hosting (model)" fairly well in the opening paragraphs. The bits that I add for the difference between standalone and "hosted" WASM clarify that in that context we're talking about deployment scenarios, and I use "deployment" there.

This was probably all considered (and rejected) in ancient Blazor design times, but an "ASP.NET Core hosted" WASM app might have been called an "ASP.NET Core deployed/deployment" WASM app, which may have eliminated the double context of "host/hosted." Anywho ... that's all water under the bridge at this point. :smile:

Reviewer: I agree. Please go with your original text.

* There's no .NET server-side dependency. The app is fully functioning after it's downloaded to the client.
* Client resources and capabilities are fully leveraged.
* Work is offloaded from the server to the client.
* An ASP.NET Core web server isn't required to host the app. Serverless deployment scenarios are possible, such as serving the app from a Content Delivery Network (CDN).

> There are downsides to using the Blazor WebAssembly hosting model:

Reviewer: This sounds too negative, and comes along as `don't use this model, as it's bad`.

```suggestion
Blazor WebAssembly hosting model has some limitations, which you have to be aware of:
```

* The app's .NET/C# code base, including the app's component code, isn't served to clients.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A Blazor Server app prerenders in response to the first client request, which creates the UI state on the server. When the client attempts to create a SignalR connection, **the client must reconnect to the same server**. Blazor Server apps that use more than one backend server should implement *sticky sessions* for SignalR connections. For more information, see the [Connection to the server](#connection-to-the-server) section.

> There are downsides to Blazor Server hosting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor Server hosting model also has some limitations:
```

* Higher latency usually exists. Every user interaction involves a network hop.
* There's no offline support. If the client connection fails, the app stops working.
* Scalability is challenging for apps with many users. The server must manage multiple client connections and handle client state.
* An ASP.NET Core server is required to serve the app. Serverless deployment scenarios aren't possible, such as serving the app from a Content Delivery Network (CDN).

The Blazor Server app model supports [Docker containers](/dotnet/standard/microservices-architecture/container-docker-introduction/index). For Docker support in Visual Studio, right-click on the project in Visual Studio and select **Add** > **Docker Support**.

### Comparison to server-rendered UI

> One way to understand Blazor Server apps is to understand how it differs from traditional models for rendering UI in ASP.NET Core apps using Razor views or Razor Pages. Both models use the [Razor language](xref:mvc/views/razor) to describe HTML content, but they significantly differ in how markup is rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to understand Blazor Server apps is to understand how it differs from traditional models for rendering UI in ASP.NET Core apps using Razor views or Razor Pages. Both models use the [Razor language](xref:mvc/views/razor) to describe the HTML content to be rendered, but they significantly differ in how markup is rendered.
```

### Connection to the server

> Blazor Server apps require an active SignalR connection to the server. If the connection is lost, the app attempts to reconnect to the server. As long as the client's state remains in memory, the client session resumes without losing state.

Reviewer: I think it's worth clarifying in `which` memory the state should remain for the connection to resume without issues.

Author: Done on https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/pull/20868/commits/2052dc0e45ac31e4866ac02adef2c79a17d68033.

> Blazor Server apps require an active SignalR connection to the server. If the connection is lost, the app attempts to reconnect to the server. As long as the client's state remains in memory, the client session resumes without losing state.

Author: ```suggestion
Blazor Server apps require an active SignalR connection to the server. If the connection is lost, the app attempts to reconnect to the server. As long as the client's state remains in the server's memory, the client session resumes without losing state.
```
